Notifications API actions/maxActions and friends (#44184)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/notification/notification/index.md

- `DataCloneError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if serializing the `data` option failed for some reason.

## Description

The constructor creates a new {{domxref("Notification")}} object instance, which represents a user notification.

Trying to create a notification inside the {{domxref("ServiceWorkerGlobalScope")}} using the `Notification()` constructor will throw a `TypeError`.
Use {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration.showNotification()")}} instead.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> You must first get permission before being able to display notifications, using {{domxref("Notification.requestPermission_static", "Notification.requestPermission()")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must get permission to display notifications using {{domxref("Notification.requestPermission_static", "Notification.requestPermission()")}}.
```

The permission may not be grantable, for example if the page is in private browsing mode.

> This constructor throws a {{jsxref("TypeError")}} when called in nearly all mobile browsers and this is unlikely to change, because web pages on mobile devices almost never "run in the background", which is the main use case for notifications.

Reviewer: This information is mostly already said earlier on. You should look to reduce the repetition.

Author: Doh. Thanks. I have removed the earlier information.

Instead, you need to register a service worker and use {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration.showNotification()")}}.
See [Chrome issue](https://crbug.com/481856) for more information.

## Examples

For more examples, see the {{domxref("Notification")}} page and [Using the Notifications API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Notifications_API/Using_the_Notifications_API).

### Basic example

This is a basic example that shows a notification if permission is already granted.
This will not work on mobile devices.

```js
if (Notification.permission === "granted") {
  const notification = new Notification("Hi there!");
}
```

> ### Using Notification() as a fallback

Author: This really needs to be part of a using guide. Putting it here for now so that people trying to construct this will see it.

This example shows a more robust approach that allows showing notifications on both desktop and mobile devices.

First we check if {{domxref("Notification")}} is supported, and if permission has been granted, returning if either is not true.
We then check if there is an active service worker.

> If there is an active service worker we use it to call {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration.showNotification()")}}, but if not, we fall back to calling the constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If so, we use it to call {{domxref("ServiceWorkerRegistration.showNotification()")}}; if not, we fall back to calling the constructor.
```
